CON-1137: Add Get service availability (ver 2024-01-22) (#562)
MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api: operations/services.md

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/services/getAvailability/2024-01-22`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
    "FirstTimeUnitStartUtc": "2024-02-01T23:00:00.000Z",

> 	"LastTimeUnitStartUtc": "2024-02-05T23:00:00.000Z"
>     "Metrics": [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "LastTimeUnitStartUtc": "2024-02-05T23:00:00.000Z",
    "Metrics": [
```

        "ConfirmedReservations",
        "OptionalReservations",
        "BlockAvailability",
        "AllocatedBlockAvailability",
        "UsableResources",
        "ActiveResources"
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](#service) whose availability should be returned. |
| `FirstTimeUnitStartUtc` | string | required | Start of the time interval, expressed as the timestamp for the start of the first [time unit](services.md#time-unit), in UTC timezone ISO 8601 format. |
| `LastTimeUnitStartUtc` | string | required | End of the time interval, expressed as the timestamp for the start of the last [time unit](services.md#time-unit), in UTC timezone ISO 8601 format. The maximum size of time interval depends on the service's [time unit](./services.md#time-unit): 367 hours if hours, 367 days if days, or 24 months if months. |

> | `Metrics` | array of string | required | Set of [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics) to be returned. |

Reviewer: I think we write type like this in case of array

```suggestion
| `Metrics` | array of [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics) | required | Set of [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics) to be returned. |
```

| `ResourceCategoryAvailabilities` | array of [Resource category availability](#resource-category-availability-ver-2024-01-22) | required | Resource category availabilities. |

#### Service availability metrics

* `OutOfOrderBlocks` - Number of resources that are out of order for the resource category ([resource block](./resourceblocks.md)).
* `PublicAvailabilityAdjustment` - Number of resources marked as manual [availability adjustments](./availabilityadjustments.md).
* `OtherServiceReservationCount` - Number of resources occupied by another service.
* `Occupied` - Number of bookings that have been assigned to the resource category (i.e. reservations and blocks).
* `ConfirmedReservations` - Number of confirmed reservations that have been assigned to the resource category.
* `OptionalReservations` - Number of optional reservations that have been assigned to the resource category.
* `BlockAvailability` - Number of blocked resources (from an availability block / allotment).
* `AllocatedBlockAvailability` - Number of blocked resources that are in a deducting state (from an availability block / allotment).
* `ActiveResources` - Number of active resources.

> * `UsableResources` - Number of usable resources (i.e. which are not out of order).

Author: note: I've asked Sylvia to check the factual correctness of what these metrics represent, but feel free to suggest different wording.

#### Resource category availability (ver 2024-01-22)

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `CategoryId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Resource category](resources.md#resource-category). |

> | `Metrics` | object | required | Object with [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics). Key corresponds to the metric name, value is array of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |

Reviewer: Isn't it more like array of integers? 🤔 

```suggestion
| `Metrics` | array of int | required | Object with [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics). Key corresponds to the metric name, value is array of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |
```

Author: No, it's an object (if you use JSON/JS terminology) or dictionary (C# terminology):

```
"Metrics": {
  "OutOfOrderBlocks": [0, 1, 0, 0, 1]
}
```

Reviewer: Than we can put dictionary? I think dictionary is already in the docs

Author: [It is](https://mews-systems.gitbook.io/connector-api/operations/_objects#dictionary), good point!

* `PublicAvailabilityAdjustment` - Number of resources marked as manual [availability adjustments](./availabilityadjustments.md).
* `OtherServiceReservationCount` - Number of resources occupied by another service.
* `Occupied` - Number of bookings that have been assigned to the resource category (i.e. reservations and blocks).
* `ConfirmedReservations` - Number of confirmed reservations that have been assigned to the resource category.
* `OptionalReservations` - Number of optional reservations that have been assigned to the resource category.
* `BlockAvailability` - Number of blocked resources (from an availability block / allotment).
* `AllocatedBlockAvailability` - Number of blocked resources that are in a deducting state (from an availability block / allotment).
* `ActiveResources` - Number of active resources.
* `UsableResources` - Number of usable resources (i.e. which are not out of order).
* …

#### Resource category availability (ver 2024-01-22)

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `CategoryId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Resource category](resources.md#resource-category). |

> | `Metrics` | dictionary | required | Dictionary with [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics). Key corresponds to the metric name, value is an array of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |

Reviewer 2: I think it would be clearer if the link to [Service availability metrics] was given when describing the dictionary keys.

Author: You mean like this?

```suggestion
| `Metrics` | dictionary | required | Dictionary keys are [Service availability metric](#service-availability-metrics), values are arrays of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |
```

> The values could be defined more strictly. What is the type of numbers? Do we want to leave an opportunity for us to return non-integer values?
> Also we can mention that the values are returned for each time unit for the requested period, ordered from earliest to latest.

To expand upon that:

```suggestion
| `Metrics` | dictionary | required | Dictionary keys are [Service availability metric](#service-availability-metrics), values are arrays of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |
```

> The default value (if metric is not defined) is 0.

This isn't always true, 0 is a legitimate metric value (e.g. you have 0 arrivals on that date).

> | `Metrics` | dictionary | required | Dictionary with [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics). Key corresponds to the metric name, value is an array of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |

Reviewer 2: The values could be defined more strictly. What is the type of numbers? Do we want to leave an opportunity for us to return non-integer values?
Also we can mention that the values are returned for each time unit for the requested period, ordered from earliest to latest. The default value (if metric is not defined) is 0.

Author: Replied in https://github.com/MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api/pull/562#discussion_r1499020765

> | `Metrics` | dictionary | required | Dictionary with [Service availability metrics](#service-availability-metrics). Key corresponds to the metric name, value is an array of numbers with metric values for covered dates. |

Reviewer 3: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think Type `dictionary` should be ```[Dictionary](_objects.md#dictionary)```, as it's not an official JSON type but one that we define ourselves.

Reviewer 3: Oops, realised my mistake – `Dictionary` as defined by us is strings not numbers, so a new object type is needed.
